---
title: February 19th, 2021
---


## 💭Services in [[Symbiosis Protocol]]
### It would be cool to use [[IPLD Schema]] and [[IPLD Selectors]] to describe services, but I came to recognize that my prior thinking of specifying service via `{ state: State, inbox: Inbox }` has major limitations.
#### Say service exposes something like [`/api/v0/block/put`](https://docs.ipfs.io/reference/http/api/#api-v0-block-put) of [[IPFS HTTP API]], where you upload some content and get a `CID` back. It would be really inconvenient if you had to figure out the CID by querying state after you've send `BlockPut` message to inbox.
#### [GraphQL][] does not have that problem because `Mutatitons`have an [argument][GraphQL Argument] and a schema for a result.
#### It is not clear to me how would you go about expressing something like that with [[IPLD Schema]]
### Given current maturity level of [[IPLD Schema]] and [[IPLD Selectors]] and limitation described above, I'm leaning towards describing service interface as a DAG of [[GraphQL Schema]] [[AST]].
#### However schemas are likely to evolve over time, implying that CID of the schema may be a poor way to identify the protocol because extended protocol is likely going to be compatible with an old protocol but nodes won't be aware.
#### On the other hard nothing stops host from announcing both schemas, which may in fact be better guarantee that host talks an older protocol  version.
#### Still seems like it might be beneficial to express that one protocol extends the other, maybe simply a link to prior revision might be a good idea.
#### [[IPNS]] would have been a great way to go about it. Oh well, one thing at a time.
### It is becoming more clear to me that hosts may want to differentiate between **local** and **global** services.
#### IPFS host like IPFS Desktop may provide pinning service, relay service, routing service, …etc to the nodes on local network only.
#### Some other services like `DNSLink` record update may be provided by a host like fission.codes.
### 💡For the proof of concept it may make more sense to use [[ipfsd-ctl]] for the host as opposed to doing prototyping in Go. Implementation in go can made afterwards.

## 🧐 Looking into [[UCAN]]

## DONE ⚡️ Wrote [[Enable PubSub]] Pitch
:PROPERTIES:
:done: 1616532519871
:END:
### Talked to Fission to ensure I did not misrepresent
### [Discussed with team on slack](https://protocollabs.slack.com/archives/C01L5S4TBPH/p1613763328261100)
## 🧐 Reviewing Textile's [[Thread DID]]s

### Textile team pointed out that [[symbiosis protocol]] has some overlap with [Thread DID discussion](https://github.com/textileio/go-threads/discussions/483)
### Read through, but I feel like I need few more passes before I can fully grasp it.