---
title: February 22nd, 2021
---

## W3DT The Spark Planning Meeting
### Create a document describing plan for [[symbiosis protocol]] proof of concept.
### Address feedback on proposals.
### Flash out details for drafted proposals.

## IPFS Core Implementations Meeting
### Turns out it was cancelled

## [[IPFS WebUI]] [upload progress](https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/ipfs-webui/pull/1655)

### Figured out that problem was caused by `ipfs.ls` on empty directory yielding directory itself (see [`f243dd1`](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/commit/f243dd1c37fcb9786d77d129cd9b238457d18a15#diff-451c33c54d61ab1f32e767b878ccd03a507ba13b852934fd40d32472df2f81f2R76)) 
### Submitted an issue [ipfs/js-ipfs#3566](https://github.com/ipfs/js-ipfs/issues/3566)

## Meeting with Fission

### Some implementations may have features that others do not have e.g. [[Fission]] has history API. We could either:
#### Leave out such APIs
#### Share FileSystem interface instead of implementation bits.

### Write API might be really tricky as it going to be different across implementations

#### We could have a `DAGWriter` interface that abstracts those pieces and uses whatever intermediate  representation it wishes.
#### E.g. Fission could represent it as `interface FileSystem { ucan: UCAN, dag: DAGNode }`

### Symlinks

#### Fission has symlinks that can point across filesystems through `DNSLink`or files / directories within via path.
##### 💭 We really need working [[IPNS]] here.
####  🧐 Pointing outside of the root makes me uncomfortable.
##### If symlinks are non relative paths it's not too bad.
#### 🧐It takes us from building up a file tree and doing atomic write into a place where
        1. We need to think about concurrent writers
        2.  Perform multiple transactions (on per symlink target + for the actual tree)

#### Some extensibility would be desired

##### Especially if implementations share a frontend and provider/backend is per implementation and lives in other thread.
##### [[Fission]] has plans to add [[tags]] to their [[WebNative Filesystem]].
###### There might be an overlap with [[UnixFSv2]]
###### Wonder if they're going for [[xattrs]] style approach (which is what Apple seems to be doing) or if attributes are going to be stored separately.
####### Storing separately seems impractical as it would require updating multiple trees.
####### 🧐 I wonder why [[UnixFSv2]] has not considered `WithMetadata` style entry which could wrap `File` or `Directory` with associated metadata *(Would have enabled linking to file with or without metadata)*

### [[WebNative FileSystem]] `V2` will likely have [[Software Transactional Memory (STM)]].

#### Would be something along the lines of:
```js
fs.transact(async fs => {
  const header = await fs.read('/header')  
  const time = new Date().toString()
  await fs.write('/content', new Blob([header, time]))
})
```
        
#### If `/header`or `/content` has changed transaction will retry.
##### 🧐 Or will it retry if anything in `fs` has changed ?
#### 🧐 Do we need such a thing for IPFS across threads ?

### [[Fission]] conflict resolution
  
#### FileSystem maintains a history
#### [[DNSLink]] is the source of truth
#### Concurrent update will find where it forked from and rebase new changes on top of it
##### Overwrites conflicting paths
    
## LATER Write TS interface and share for feedback
:PROPERTIES:
:later: 1616533626818
:END:
