---
title: February 17th, 2021
---


## DONE Incorporate suggested changes into proposed project pitches.
:PROPERTIES:
:done: 1616527062812
:END:
## DONE A team call to get in sync on proposed ranking of current proposals.
:PROPERTIES:
:done: 1616527070720
:END:
## Call with [[@vmx]] to discuss a strategy of updating [[js-ipfs]] to new [[js-multiformats]]
### Agreed that best path forward would be to swap out CID implementation first.
### I proposed we drop `ipfs.dag` API in favor of `ipfs.block` (requires feedback from [[@achingbrain]])
#### We could/should realize separate library that can provide current `ipfs.dag` compatible API so users can choose their phase of migration or just use that other library.
#### Maybe `ipfs.block` API needs to be amended to allow getting block with a path in order to avoid unnecessary roundtrips (something that `ipfs.dag` does today).
## Migrated [[@carsonfarmer]]'s feedback on [[Reliable Mutability Primitive]] proposal into PR.
## Call with @carsonfarmer who wanted to provide feedback on [[Symbiosis protocol]] _(who has been exploring related ideas)_
### IPFS provides a good distributed storage, but it lacks p2p services (that could be incentivized with token and/or conventional forms of payements)
### Has a prototype of [[RPC over libp2p]] (Built on top of [[@mikeal]]'s [[znode]]).
### In P2P host providing service does not really matter as long as result has CID.
#### Same host (in [[symbiosis protocol]] terms) could be represented by multiple peers (e.g. [[textile]] has bunch of thread nodes but it does not matter which one you talk to)
### [[Fission]] [[UCAN]] are worth looking into
#### Nested [[JWT]]s representing capability proofs.
#### E.g. You can sign a pinning request, and delegate capability to execute it to a different actor with a specified timeframe.
#### 💭 Should learn more about. Maybe that is a more formal way to represent service permission as opposed to reusing `peerid` that  [[symbiosis protocol]] suggested.

## Followed the suggestion and submitting incomplete proposals

### [[Distributed signaling]]
### [[Infrastructure coop]]
### [[Unified FileSystem API]]

## Conversation with [[@carsonfarmer]] got me thinking how would hosts describe a services they provide in [[symbiosis protocol]]

### node does not has a schema language and is way too [[nodejs]] specific.
### I am impartial towards [[GraphQL]]
#### It is has well type interface (as in it has a type system)
#### Has batching builtin (reducing roundtrips)
#### Is able to compose mutation & querying

## 💡It would make most immediate sense to represent [[AST]] of the [GraphQL schema][] as a DAG and use that in service announcements.
## 💡Could we use [[IPLD schemas]] as more IPLD native way to represent service specification ?

### [Engaged IPLD team with above question](https://protocollabs.slack.com/archives/CGVA4K02Y/p1613603914427900)
#### [[@willscott]] pointed out [[go-ipld-graphql]] that bridges [[IPLD]] data to [[GraphQL]]
##### Although it appears to be just for querying & not mutation
##### You'd still have to generate [[GraphQL schema]] from it and add your mutations
##### That seems to suggest that would not be anything other than service implementation detail as host would still have to describe interface with [[GraphQL schema]].
#### @willscott suggested that idiomatic IPLD mutations would take a form of submitting diffs encoded as IPLD
##### That assumes all of the state is mutable which is not the case in practice.
#### Got me wondering if you could describe service as `{state: State inbox: Message}` struct in [[IPLD Schema]]. 
##### You could query state (just like you do in GraphQL)
##### And send messages to inbox (to cause effects)
##### In fact [[GraphQL Schema]] is `{ query: Query, mutation: Mutation }` 
#### ⚡️We could actually express service is [[IPLD Schema]] `{ query: Query, mutation: Mutation }`
##### However IPLD Schemas have no notion similar to [[GraphQL]] 
 [Arguments](https://graphql.org/learn/queries/#arguments)
###### It would be of little use without [[IPLD Selectors]]
####### Reading through selectors spec I am under impression that it does not retain a structure.
####### We might be able to define custom "Service Selector" IPLD Schema
####### It can be a lot simpler that [[IPLD Selectors]]
######## Just field and element matching
## Investigating [[IPFS WebUI]] [progress UI PR](https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/ipfs-webui/pull/1655) to figure out why is it failing in CI
