# February 22



##### W3DT The Spark Planning Meeting

- Create a document describing plan for "symbiosis protocol" proof of concept.
- Address feedback on proposals.
- Flash out details for drafted proposals.

##### IPFS Core Implementations Meeting

- Turns out it was cancelled

##### [WebUI upload progress][]

- 

##### Meeting with Fission

- Some implementations may have features that others do not have e.g. Fission has history API. We could either:
  1. Leave out such APIs
  2. Share FileSystem interface instead of implementation bits.

- Write API might be really tricky as it going to be different across implementations

    - We could have a `DAGWriter` interface that abstracts those pieces and uses whatever intermediate  representation it wishes.
    - E.g. Fission could represent it as `interface FileSystem { ucan: UCAN, dag: DAGNode }`

- Symlinks

    - Fission has symlinks that can point across filesystems through `DNSLink`or files / directories within via path.
        - 💭We really need working IPNS here.
    - 🧐 Pointing outside of the root makes me uncomfortable.
        - If symlinks are non relative paths it's not too bad.
    - 🧐It takes us from building up a file tree and doing atomic write into a place where
        1. We need to think about concurrent writers
        2.  Perform multiple transactions (on per symlink target + for the actual tree)

- Some extensibility would be desired

    - Especially if implementations share a frontend and provider/backend is per implementation and lives in other thread.
    - Fission has plans to add tags to their filesystem.
        - There might be an overlap with [UnixFSv2][]
        - Wonder if they're going for xattrs style approach (which is what Apple seems to be doing) or if attributes are going to be stored separately.
            - Storing separately seems impractical as it would require updating multiple trees.
            - 🧐I wonder why UnixFSv2 has not considered `WithMetadata` style entry which could wrap `File` or `Directory` with associated metadata *(Would have enabled linking to file with or without metadata)*

- `WebNativeFileSystem` V2 will likely have `STM`.

    - Would be something along the lines of:
        
        ```js
        fs.transact(async fs => {
        	const header = await fs.read('/header')  
          const time = new Date().toString()
          await fs.write('/content', new Blob([header, time]))
        })
        ```
        
    - If `/header`or `/content` has changed transaction will retry.

        - 🧐Or will it retry if anything in `fs` has changed ?

    - 🧐 Do we need such a thing for IPFS across threads ?

- Fission conflict resolution
    
    - FileSystem maintains a history
    - DNSLink is the source of truth
    - Concurrent update will find a it forked from and rebase new changes on top of own
        - Overwrites conflicting paths
    
- **TODO**: Write TS interface and share for feedback



[WebUI upload progress]:https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/ipfs-webui/pull/1655
[UnixFSv2]:https://gist.github.com/warpfork/121a9f89c2a9ca1c642c27ae4101686e