# The Spark Planning 2021-02-22

@alanshaw
- ‚è≠ Next:
    - Write proposal for "Dealswap"
    - Finish proposal for [Retrieval Miner aaS](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/32)
    - Finish proposal for [CID bounty](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/33) (evaluate if still needed)
    - Update proposal for [E2E tests for deal flow](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/28)
    - Start work on [Free retrieval via IPFS](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/52)
        - Plan for code changes
        - Figure out how to run a test network of Lotus

@gozala
- üö¢ Shipped:
    - Myself & @hugomrdias submitted [symbiosis protocol](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/18)
    - Submitted [enable pubsub](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/53/files) proposal.
- ‚è≠ Next:
    - Meeting with Fission to to discuss Unified FileSystem API and how their WebNativeFileSystem fits.
    - Would like to put some of the thinking on Symbiosis Protocol to work.
    - Considering writing inbox/message-queue proposal (kind of like [textile mailboxs](https://docs.textile.io/users/#mailbox-overview))

@riba
- üö¢ Shipped:
    - Got my humble proposal accepted
    - Recorded mildly successful demo of the pre-tracking version of the datastore
- ‚è≠ Next:
    - Running behind on orphans tracking, hope to finish this today
    - Get a complete ~3TiB loaded version ready for sentinel ingestion by ~Wed
    - PoC of instalotus end-of-week-ish 

@hugomrdias 
- üö¢ Shipped:
    - js-ipfs releases
    - symbiosis protocol pitch
- ‚è≠ Next:
    - react native work review
    - typescript support in js-ipfs
    - other pitch feedback and review

@jnthnvctr
- ‚è≠ Next:
    - https://www.notion.so/Anatomy-of-NFTs-e2e92c60801a446abbf2317300b989a1

## Projects

Stages key:

1. üí° Researching/pitching
2. ‚è≥ Evaluating (Pitch PR sent)
3. üöú In Progress (Working on project)
4. ü§ù Handover/feedback (Submitted back to customer)
5. ‚ú® Complete

### Dealswap (üí°) (@alanshaw)

@alanshaw
- Write some details down.
- Submit a proposal.

### [Retrieval Miner aaS](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/32) (üí°) (@alanshaw)

@alanshaw
- Complete the proposal.

### [CID bounty](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/33) (üí°) (@alanshaw)

@alanshaw
- Evaluate if still necessary and maybe complete.

### [E2E tests for deal flow](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/28) (‚è≥) (@alanshaw)

@alanshaw
- Update the proposal.

### [AWS S3 Facade to Filecoin](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/34) (‚è≥) (@alanshaw)

@alanshaw
- More details on implement and what involves.

### [Free retrieval via IPFS](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/52) (üöú) (@alanshaw)

üéâ Approved!

@alanshaw
- Start work on the solution

@ribasushi
- Help with setting up test network when something compiles!

### [Symbiotic Networks](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/18) (‚è≥) (@gozala)

@gozala
- Address feedback
- Solution design
    - Considering GraphQL over IPLD schema

### [Reliable Mutability Primitive](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/19) (‚è≥) (@gozala)

@hugomrdias
- Address feedback on proposal
- Merge with [@lidel's proposal](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/42)?

### [Unified FileSystem API](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/45) (üí°) (@gozala)

@gozala
- Meet with Fission for stakeholder involvement
- Maybe some overlap with Rod's modular js-ipfs proposal
- Complete this proposal this week

### [Infrastructure coop](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/44) (üí°) (@gozala)

@gozala
- Consider parking this for now

### [Enable Pubsub](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/53) (‚è≥) (@gozala)

Ready for consideration.

### [Instalotus](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/29) (üöú) (@ribasushi)

üéâ Approved!

@ribasushi
- Continue working on the solution

### [Distributed Signaling](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/43) (üí°) (@gozala)

@gozala
- Flesh out the proposal

@alanshaw
- Look at the proposal

## Notes/Questions

@alanshaw
- Add calendar event for NFT discovery session

The "no-regrets" list:
- https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/blob/main/problems.md
