# The Spark Planning 2021-06-07

## Agenda

1. Async updates: participants broadcast their own async update and answer any questions.
2. Current projects: review and assign tasks for the next week.
3. Project pitches: review status and next steps if there are changes.
4. Open discussion for any other questions that arise.

## Async Updates

@alanshaw (AWWL)
- ğŸš¢ Shipped:
    - CAR chunker https://github.com/alanshaw/carbites
- â›”ï¸ Blocked: ğŸ
- â­ Next: ğŸ

@jv
- ğŸš¢ Shipped:
    - n/a
- ongoing: 
    - Last week, worked with Tara on her designs (along with a number of y'all): https://www.figma.com/file/mxRXqlzGd4MovE85euZtu8/NFT-STORAGE?node-id=425%3A0
    - working with Hedera on getting a submission of NFT.storage as their reference implementation for HIP10 
    - Doing background research for TAP Networks convo next week
        - Chatted with ARansil about energy work he's doing to estimate impact of FIL
- â›”ï¸ Blocked:
    - Some questions about our upcoming priorities and sequencing post-ETH scrape
        - Next chains we'll be working on 
- â­ Next:
    - Align with Hugo 
    - Chatting with Kaue + Jigstack about their no-code widget, seeing what their plans are for expanding
    - Syncing with Kadir about the "user facing" app he's taking on (to take over the "Check my NFT" page)

@olizilla
- ğŸš¢ Shipped:
    - ipfs-get & CAR export over HTTP available from https://ipfs.io (you can curl a CAR from the gateway now!)
    ```
    curl -X POST "https://ipfs.io/api/v0/dag/export?arg=bafybeidd2gyhagleh47qeg77xqndy2qy3yzn4vkxmk775bg2t5lpuy7pcu" \
    | npx ipfs-car
    
    # or
    npx ipfs-get bafybeidd2gyhagleh47qeg77xqndy2qy3yzn4vkxmk775bg2t5lpuy7pcu
    ```
- â­ Next:
    - land CAR upload support in nft.storage (nearly done!)
    - talk to open-sea about using `ipfs-car` or similar to pre-calculate their CIDs
    - define improvement gateway work with Mikeal and Vasco

@hugomrdias 
- Shipped:
    - CORS error related to a security rules from  cloudflare https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/nft.storage/issues/175
    - Review niftysafe still WIP
    - Align with JV on the design work
    - Transitioning nft.storage to FaunaDB WIP
- Next:
    - Write down my notes about the FaunaDB migration into an issue
    - Finish the NFT faunadb collection 

@vasco-santos
- Shipped:
    - [ipfs-car](https://github.com/vasco-santos/ipfs-car) v0.2
        - Blockstore as temporary storage for parsing car file
        - Added Browser support with functions exported that are compatible to different runtimes
- Next:
    - [Spike on stream upload](https://www.notion.so/protocollabs/Multipart-Upload-Removing-File-Size-Limitation-bb8ced12a62948f7a14ad7fc76edf6cf)
    - Gateway

@riba
- ğŸš¢ Shipped:
    - Finalized v1 of the `DagAggregate` manifest based partially on the aggregation spec from last month: `curl -s https://ipfs.io/ipfs/bafybeic2uuqbmsctsn6gppxw56oc3hfkwwzrpkdrabplq7wq5l7oufujvi/@BatchManifest.ndjson | less -S`
    - Implemented and tested partial retrieval based on the above manifest: https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/pull/6393
    - Proper schema and start of go-based syncer: https://github.com/nftstorage/dagcargo 
    - Specced/tested Estuary API for retrieval of deal info 
- â›”ï¸ Blocked:
    - N/A
- â­ Next:
    - Finalize pulling estuary data and storing alongside our deals
    - Re-enable updater of dealstates
    - Expose R/O access to the cargo database to *potentially* allow access to aggregates etc (for grafana and for JV)

@gozala
- ğŸš¢ Shipped:
    - Got the last piece of the niftysave worked out.
        - Will clean up and submit pr in a bit
- â›”ï¸ Blocked:
    - Got to address review feedback received in niftysave PR.
    - Hash out if we're ok with fauna moving forward or if it's not a right fit.
- â­ Next:
    - document how niftysave works
    - new subgraph to support new contracts and few additional info (transaction id, cost etc..)

@andrew
- ğŸš¢ Shipped:
    - [v0.1 milestone](https://github.com/foragepm/forage/milestone/1)
    - Configurable [pubsub channel](https://github.com/foragepm/forage/issues/25) and [http port](https://github.com/foragepm/forage/issues/24) via cli
- â­ Next:
    - [Reworking the web UI](https://github.com/foragepm/forage/pull/95)
    - Finishing [Signed metadata](https://github.com/foragepm/forage/issues/82)
    - [electron cli](https://github.com/foragepm/forage/issues/30)

## Projects

Stages key:

1. ğŸ’¡ Researching/pitching
2. â³ Evaluating (Pitch PR sent)
3. ğŸšœ In Progress (Working on project)
4. ğŸ¤ Handover/feedback (Submitted back to customer)
5. âœ¨ Complete
6. ğŸ’¾ Paused and saved for another day

### Current Projects

Planning for the projects we're actively working on.

#### [NFT.storage](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/99) (ğŸšœ) (@the-spark)

* CAR uploads (with user created CAR files via `ipfs-car` or similar)
* Support uploads larger than 100MB
    * pay to raise limit?
    * split large car into multi (more work for us)
        * does cluster support expiring pins? can it?
        * or upload the root first, and then associate partial CARs later?
            * riba says "it will work"â„¢ï¸
            * we lose meaningful 200 on the initial pin.
            * add an api to take cars but not pin. (dag import to)
            * (or an inbox)
            * @vasco to sketch estimate solution

* FaunaDB vs other options and make a plan - @hugomrdias & @gozala
* ...

#### [Instalotus](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/29) (ğŸ¤) (@ribasushi)

* goal0
    * @name task0

#### [ipfs-car](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/100) (ğŸšœ) (@vasco & @olizilla)

* goal0
    * @name task0

#### [Forage](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/83) (ğŸšœ) (@andrew)

* release v0.1 and onboard real users

### Pitches

Projects we're writing up or have written that we may work on in the future.

* [Miner DHT](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/103) (ğŸ’¡) (@alanshaw)
* Recurring deal, funded by anyone (ğŸ’¡) (@alanshaw)
* Check My NFT v2 (ğŸ’¡) (@alanshaw)
* Provider Indexer Node (ğŸ’¡) (@alanshaw)
* Dealswap (ğŸ’¡) (@alanshaw)
* Filecoin RAID (ğŸ’¡) (@alanshaw)
* [Retrieval Miner aaS](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/32) (ğŸ’¡) (@alanshaw)
* [CID bounty](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/33) (ğŸ’¡) (@alanshaw)
* [E2E tests for deal flow](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/28) (â³) (@alanshaw)
* [AWS S3 Facade to Filecoin](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/34) (â³) (@alanshaw)
* [Symbiotic Networks](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/18) (â³) (@gozala)
* [Reliable Mutability Primitive](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/19) (â³) (@gozala)
* [Unified FileSystem API](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/45) (ğŸ’¡) (@gozala)
* [Enable Pubsub](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/53) (â³) (@gozala)
* [Distributed Signaling](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/43) (ğŸ’¾) (@gozala)
* [Infrastructure coop](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/44) (ğŸ’¾) (@gozala)

## Notes/Questions

General notes and/or questions go here.
