# The Spark Planning 2021-06-28

## Agenda

1. Async updates: participants broadcast their own async update and answer any questions.
2. Current projects: review and assign tasks for the next week.
3. Project pitches: review status and next steps if there are changes.
4. Open discussion for any other questions that arise.

## Async Updates

@olizilla 
- ğŸš¢ shipped:
    - skeleton of tbc.storage api & client https://github.com/filecoin-storage/filecoin.storage
- â›”ï¸ Blocked:
    - endless bundling issues
    - pls pick a name for tbc.storage.
- â­ Next:
    - Land `client.get(cid)` PR
        - https://github.com/filecoin-storage/filecoin.storage/pull/4
    - Add minimal CLI for tbc.storage to test out consuming the client.
 
@alanshaw 
- ğŸš¢ Shipped:
    - CAR chunking on nft.storage - no more 100MB per NFT limit!
    - Updated nft.storage upload page to use CAR chunker
    - MPPs for many of the things we're already working on
- â­ Next:
    - Design doc for nft.storage data redundancy [wip here](https://www.notion.so/protocollabs/NFT-storage-Data-Redundancy-3c971d4ac95445db9a3e9f898947ec9d)
    - Extracting FaunaDB schema and queries for filecoin.storage

@vasco-santos
- ğŸš¢ Shipped:
    - N/A Maintenance
- â›”ï¸ Blocked:
    - N/A
- â­ Next:
    - Working on tbc.storage File Add

@jv
- ğŸš¢ Shipped:
    - Product review on homepage and content
        -> minor tweaks to content in bound, but we're not blocked!
    - Design team is up and running, Agata will be helping on design, Martin (contractor) on cleaning up the rough mocks https://www.figma.com/file/826Zurcs6kgWSzQ35it966/web3.storage?node-id=79%3A448
    - Meeting with marketing re: launch plan
- â›”ï¸ Blocked:
    - more a question:default storage size increase
- â­ Next:
    - Incorporating feedback on the content portions of the homepage
    - Working with design to land a first tgurn EOW
    - Brainstorming some growth hacking ideas (feedback from pooja)
    - Align on hackathon circuit / etc with Dietrich / Lukas

@andrew
- ğŸš¢ Shipped:
    - forage-index 0.0.1 ([code](https://github.com/foragepm/index), [website](https://index.foragepm.com/))
    - updated forage to use go-ipfs 0.9.0
- â›”ï¸ Blocked:
    - N/A
- â­ Next:
    - registry -> ipfs -> .car file pipeline ready for tbc.storage (may test with nft.storage)
    - ramping up archiving of npm packages
    - start importing go packages
    - documentation

@riba
- ğŸš¢ Shipped:
    - Detailed broker design doc https://hackmd.io/8DOUz0ybT3-ipxfdhN6JIQ?view
    - Found/fixed several minor inconstencis with the aggregator
    - Got a local miner-signature PoC running locally, packaging pending
- â›”ï¸ Blocked:
    - Blockage0
- â­ Next:
    - Overflow from last week:
        - aggregate the now-cleaned dataset into new deals
        - test the near-production self-service portal with miners
        - bulk import/export of data for Estuary/textile + the niftysave effort

@hugomrdias 
- ğŸš¢ Shipped:
    - Vacations sailed away
- â­ Next:
    - ??

@gozala
- ğŸš¢ Shipped:
    - Was on rotation
    - Synced with @alanshaw
    - Landed niftysave PR, but jobs are disabled because isse was identified that is better addressed first
- â­ Next:
    - Add pin status checking
    - Factor out Collection collection from Resource collection
    - finish schema migration improvement patch

@terichadbourne

- ğŸš¢ Shipped:
    - Wireframe review w/ JV
    - API intro w/ Oli & tech writers (Johnny, John, Yusef)
- â­ Next:
    - Kicking off tbc.storage project with full DAO team, [scoping M1 tasks](https://www.notion.so/protocollabs/web3-storage-docs-M1-3c53c72545ca457c9dabaada3cfb29c0)
    - Get ZÃ© to build scaffold/repo for docs page 
    - Connect on where design needs to overlap this week before Jessica's out
    - User stories, info architecture, etc laying foundation for our acceptance criteria

## Projects

Stages key:

1. ğŸ’¡ Researching/pitching
2. â³ Evaluating (Pitch PR sent)
3. ğŸšœ In Progress (Working on project)
4. ğŸ¤ Handover/feedback (Submitted back to customer)
5. âœ¨ Complete
6. ğŸ’¾ Paused and saved for another day

### Current Projects

Planning for the projects we're actively working on.

#### [filecoin.storage](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/110) (ğŸšœ) (@the-spark)

* @ web3.storage recorded demo for Friday?!?!
    * @olizilla 

#### [NFT.storage](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/99) (ğŸšœ) (@the-spark)

* @ querying nft.storage database for stats page (stats, search)
    * @who task

#### [Forage](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/83) (ğŸšœ) (@andrew)

* @ index all the things
    * @andrew scaling up forage-index and integrating with tbc.storage

### Pitches

Projects we're writing up or have written that we may work on in the future.

* [Miner DHT](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/103) (ğŸ’¡) (@alanshaw)
* Recurring deal, funded by anyone (ğŸ’¡) (@alanshaw)
* Check My NFT v2 (ğŸ’¡) (@alanshaw)
* Provider Indexer Node (ğŸ’¡) (@alanshaw)
* Dealswap (ğŸ’¡) (@alanshaw)
* Filecoin RAID (ğŸ’¡) (@alanshaw)
* [Retrieval Miner aaS](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/32) (ğŸ’¡) (@alanshaw)
* [CID bounty](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/33) (ğŸ’¡) (@alanshaw)
* [E2E tests for deal flow](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/28) (â³) (@alanshaw)
* [AWS S3 Facade to Filecoin](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/34) (â³) (@alanshaw)
* [Symbiotic Networks](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/18) (â³) (@gozala)
* [Reliable Mutability Primitive](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/19) (â³) (@gozala)
* [Unified FileSystem API](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/45) (ğŸ’¡) (@gozala)
* [Enable Pubsub](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/53) (â³) (@gozala)
* [Distributed Signaling](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/43) (ğŸ’¾) (@gozala)
* [Infrastructure coop](https://github.com/protocol/web3-dev-team/pull/44) (ğŸ’¾) (@gozala)

## Notes/Questions

General notes and/or questions go here.
